prior credit
Loading vectorstore from /var/www/moodledata/local_ai/test/
load INSTRUCTOR_Transformer
max_seq_length  512
Title:training/policy/Policy_on_the_Recognition_of_Prior_Learning_and_Credit_Transfer.pdf; Content:POLICY ON THE 
RECOGNITION OF 
PRIOR LEARNING AND 
CREDIT TRANSFER 

Version No.  Description 
1.0 

Author 
Education 
Enhancement 

Approval 
Senate  

 

Effective Date 
From AY 2021-
22 

1.1 

Education 
Enhancement 

Senate 

April 2023 

A policy confirming 
arrangements 
for 
the  Recognition  of 
Prior  Learning  and 
credit transfer 

A minor 
amendment to 
clarify the approval 
route for internal 
credit transfer. A minor 
amendment to 
clarify the approval 
route for internal 
credit transfer.  

      

 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 

Contents GLOSSARY OF TERMS .................................................................................................................... 3 
SCOPE .................................................................................................................................................. 4 
INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................................. 5 
DEFINITIONS ....................................................................................................................................... 6 
THE APPLICATION OF RPL AND CREDIT TRANSFER IN THE UNIVERSITY ..................... 6 
CREDIT TRANSFER ........................................................................................................................... 7 
THE USE AND RE-USE OF CREDIT ............................................................................................... 8 
RECOGNITION OF PRIOR LEARNING .......................................................................................... 8 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES ................................................................................................. 10 
APPEALS ............................................................................................................................................ 10 
Appendix A – Useful Resources .................................................................................................. 11 
Appendix B: Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)/ Credit Transfer Application Form . 12 2 

 

 

 
 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
 

Accredited Prior Learning 

Advanced standing 

Articulation 

Board of Study 

Direct entry 

External Credit transfer 

Exemptions 

Experiential Prior Learning 

 

 
 

Where previous study with a recognised educational 
organisation has been formally assessed and can be 
expressed in terms of credit (with or without grades). Applicants who achieve exceptional grades in their 
Advanced Highers, A-levels or International 
Baccalaureate (SCQF Level 7) or have successfully 
completed an HC or HND at college may be considered 
for Direct Entry normally into year two of a University 
Honours or Integrated Masters programme. In some 
circumstances, a student may be awarded advanced 
standing credits based on their qualifications achieved 
before starting at the University that can count towards 
the total number of credits needed, reducing the 
number of modules a student must take during their 
studies. Whereby all students who satisfy academic criteria on 
programmes where formal curriculum matching has 
taken place are automatically entitled on academic 
grounds to be admitted with advanced standing to a 
University programme. 

A Faculty’s senior academic committee, which makes 
recommendations directly to Senate and takes some 
decisions on behalf of Senate via delegated authority.  

Where students enter into a University programme 
normally in the second year, with Advanced Standing. Students may apply for external credit transfer if they 
have earned credit at, or validated by, another UK 
higher education institution with degree-awarding 
powers. 

Students who have partially completed a programme 
from another education provider may be granted an 
exemption in particular module(s) as long as curriculum 
matching has taken place and appropriate supporting 
evidence has been presented. Where informal, but potentially assessable, learning 
has been acquired through relevant, adequate, and 
recent experience in a wide variety of settings. 

 

3 

Internal Credit Transfer 

Professional, Statutory and 
Regulatory Body 

Recognition of Prior Learning  

Senate 

Work-based Learning 

Students may apply for internal credit transfer, where 
they transfer their credits from one Strathclyde 
programme, usually to pursue a higher award in the 
same or a similar discipline. PSRBs accredit or endorse programmes that meet 
professional standards, provide a route through to the 
professions or are recognised by employers. 

A method of assessing whether a learner’s experience 
and achievements meet the evidence requirements (ie 
the standard) of a module. The academic governing body within the University,   
responsible for all academic matters including 
academic standards and quality.  
Incorporates learning through work, learning for work 
and/or learning at work. It consists of authentic 
structured opportunities for learning which are achieved 
in a workplace setting or are designed to meet an 
identified workplace need. This type of learning typically 
has a dual function of being designed to meet the 
learning needs of the employees, developing their 
knowledge, skills and professional behaviours, and also 
meeting the workforce development needs of the 
organisation (QAA, 2018) SCOPE 

1.  This Policy applies to all taught modules, including taught modules within 

postgraduate research programmes. All students on these programmes are 
eligible for RPL and credit transfer, including those students enrolled through 
collaborative agreements. Any exemptions to the Policy must be approved by the 
relevant Board of Study and Senate, as detailed within this Policy 2.  This Policy deals with how prior learning can be recognised across the University 
to  enable  exemption  from  specific  modules  of  a  programme  and/or  to  allow 
advanced entry leading to a qualification. The Senate has devolved to faculties the 
management and assessment of RPL and credit transfer within this Policy. 3.  The transfer of credits awarded by an overseas degree awarding institution as part 
of a Study Abroad or Erasmus exchange arrangement are managed through the 
Recruitment and International Office and are not within the scope of this Policy.  
 

4.  The transfer of credits, ‘advanced standing’ for articulation agreements or other 
learning  within  collaborative  programmes  is  managed  within  each  Faculty’s 
Admissions team or equivalent. 

 

4 4 

 

 
 

 
 

5.  Students  may  apply  with  advanced  standing  for  direct  entry  into  year  2  of  an 
undergraduate  honours  programme 
individual 
applications, the University’s Admissions and Student Lifecycle Services team will 
liaise  directly  with  the  relevant  academic  selector  to  consider  the  student’s 
qualifications.  

through  UCAS.  For 

these these 

6.  RPL and credit transfer can only be applied to taught modules and not for modules 
where the main form of assessment is a dissertation or research project. Only the 
taught element of a Postgraduate Research award may be granted RPL or credit 
transfer.  For  further  information  regarding  the  use  of  existing  research  and/or 
published output as part of any examinable part of the research degree, refer to 
the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Students. 7.  This Policy should be read in conjunction with the University’s Admissions Policy, 
the General Academic Regulations, the programme specific regulations and the 
Equality and Diversity policies. 

INTRODUCTION 8.  The University of Strathclyde (hereafter the University) recognises that knowledge 
and  skills  can  be  developed  in a  diverse  range  of formal  and  informal  learning 
contexts. The University seeks to accommodate the Recognition of Prior Learning 
(RPL)  and  credit  transfer  as  a  means  of  providing  appropriate  entry  to  and 
progression  within  undergraduate  and  postgraduate  programmes.  This 
commitment  to  supporting  the  use  of  RPL  and  credit  transfer  reflects  the 
University’s  leading  role  in  widening  access  to  and  participation  in  higher 
education. 9.  The  University’s  Policy  on  RPL  has  been  developed  and  aligns  with  QAA 
Scotland’s  Recognition of Prior Learning National Framework for Scottish Higher 
Education). 

10. There is no obligation for any department/school to formally consider requests for 
RPL or credit transfer, provided it can demonstrate this would not be appropriate 
to  the  programme  or  nature  of  provision  offered  (for  example,  due  to  the 
requirements of a professional body). 11. Where an RPL or credit transfer claim can be formally considered, a Board of Study 
should appoint the Head of Department/School to deliberate on entry to or partial 
exemption from a programme provided this is done in accordance with relevant 
University procedures and against criteria defined by an individual programme.  

 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

DEFINITIONS  
 

12. This  Policy  distinguishes  between  credit  transfer  and  the  recognition  of  prior learning, defined as follows:  
 
a.  Credit Transfer: where the credits or qualification(s) have been awarded by a 
UK  higher  education  degree-awarding  body  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
higher education qualifications framework. Credit transfer may be internal (eg 
from BSc in Mathematics to the BA in Management Science) or external (ie 
from a UK higher education degree-awarding body to Strathclyde). It is only the 
marks for internal credit transfer that are retained and used in credit weighted 
average  calculations.  Marks  are  not  normally  retained  for  either  internal  or 
external credit transfer when determining the final degree classification. b.  Accredited Prior Learning: where previous study with a recognised educational 
organisation has been formally assessed and  can be expressed in terms of 
credit.  

 
c.  Experiential Prior Learning:  where non-formal and informal, but nonetheless 
potentially assessable, learning has been acquired through relevant, adequate, 
and recent experience. 13. Normally,  a  student’s  learning  will  be  handled  as  either  credit  transfer  or  RPL; 
however, there may be occasions where both need to be considered ie a student 
has a combination of UK credit and prior learning.  

14. For both credit transfer and RPL, the minimum level of assessment is a module. 

Students cannot apply for credit for or exemption from part of a module.  
 

THE APPLICATION OF RPL AND CREDIT TRANSFER IN THE UNIVERSITY THE APPLICATION OF RPL AND CREDIT TRANSFER IN THE UNIVERSITY 
 

15. RPL and credit transfer have three distinct purposes in the University. These are:  

 

 

 

a.  To provide evidence to support admission to a programme;  

b.  To allow for direct entry on to a programme; and, 

c.  To allow exemption from specific modules within a programme. 

 

6 c.  To allow exemption from specific modules within a programme. 

 

6 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

16. For undergraduate programmes, the maximum number of credits for which credit 
transfer and/ or RPL can be applied is normally 25%, and will not exceed 50% of 
a four year undergraduate Honours degree subject to Senate approval. 17. For Integrated Masters programmes, the maximum number of credits for  which 
credit transfer and/ or RPL can be applied is normally 20%, and will not exceed 
40% of a five year Integrated Masters degree subject to Senate approval.  

18. The number of credits for which credit transfer and/ or RPL can be applied to a 18. The number of credits for which credit transfer and/ or RPL can be applied to a 

Postgraduate Taught programme is normally one third of the total number of 
credits on the programme. For any exceptions to this Faculties must provide a 
clear rationale as to why such an exception should be considered by Senate.  
 

19. For internal credit transfer that exceeds the credit limits outlined in paragraphs 19. For internal credit transfer that exceeds the credit limits outlined in paragraphs 

16-18, the standard internal credit transfer process will apply and on approval by 
the Board of Study, be reported to Senate for information. 
 

20. If internal credit transfer is approved by the Board of Study and where appropriate, 
students will not be asked to ‘hand back’ any previously earned degree, diploma 
or certificate until the higher level award has been achieved and conferred. 21. Any  programme-specific  variations  to  these  regulations  must  be  identified  and 
approved at the point of programme approval or review (for example, some awards 
may exclude or limit the use of RPL due to Professional, Statutory and Regulatory 
Body (PSRB) requirements).  

CREDIT TRANSFER CREDIT TRANSFER  
 

22. Students may apply for external credit transfer, subject to the number of credits 
above,  provided  they  have  earned  credit  at  a  validated  UK  higher  education 
institution with degree-awarding powers. 23. Applications for credit transfer require academic judgement in determining whether 
prior module content (for which the student has earned credit) can be mapped onto 
a  module/modules  at  the  University.  A  student’s  application  should  therefore 
include  evidence  of  credit  received,  (a  transcript  or  equivalent),  plus  a  module 
descriptor or syllabus that provides evidence of the learning outcomes achieved. 24. Credit transfer can be applied internally, to modules that have achieved a pass 

mark. In such instances, the relevant mark will be retained as per para 12a. 

 

7 

 

 

 

 
 

THE USE AND RE-USE OF CREDIT 25. Credits may be awarded for prior learning where the level, standard, content and 
relevance  of  that  learning  is  appropriate  to  a  particular  programme  and  has 
normally  taken  place  within  a  period  of  five  years.  In  particular,  credit  may  be 
awarded via RPL for: 
  
a.  individual modules, where it can be demonstrated that the learning outcomes 
for  the  module  through  knowledge,  understanding,  and/or  skills  that  they 
already possess are met as a result of prior learning; and/or, b.  for a full year of study (i.e. 120 credits), where the applicant or student can 
demonstrate that they meet the learning outcomes for the relevant year of study 
through knowledge, understanding, and/or skills that they already possess as 
a result of prior learning. 26. Credit for a completed award can only be used to seek advanced standing on to a 
programme leading to an award at a higher level. Credit for a completed award 
cannot be used towards another award at the same level, as this would constitute 
double-counting of credit, unless the following criteria are met: 
  
a.  The programme is in a different subject, vocational or professional area to their 

prior award at undergraduate or postgraduate level; or, prior award at undergraduate or postgraduate level; or, 
 

b.  The  award  is  at  SCQF  level  11  (Masters  level)  and  enables  the  student  to 

advance in their existing subject in a new or specialist direction. 

27. A student granted RPL credit cannot subsequently re-use that credit towards a 
further award offered at the University, unless the student is granted credit for prior 
learning as part of a programme with a direct progression route. 28. In line with SCQF guidance, credits awarded are considered to be of the same 
value as those gained within the University. However, as per para 12a the credits 
are  normally  accepted  as  ungraded  and  therefore  do  not  contribute  to  the final 
degree classification on any programme.  
 

 

RECOGNITION OF PRIOR LEARNING RECOGNITION OF PRIOR LEARNING 
    

29. Matching prior learning to the learning outcomes of a programme or module is an 
academic judgement and as such departments and schools are responsible for 
making and recording detailed decisions on RPL through their Board of Study. 
 

 

8 8 

 

 

   

 
 

30. The  Board  of  Study  may,  with  the  approval  of  Senate,  admit  applicants  and/or 
approve  exemption  from  part  of  a  programme  by  RPL  provided  this  is  done  in 
accordance with University procedures. 31. An applicant can be accepted for a programme or awarded an exemption for a 
particular module where the applicant or student can evidence that their accredited 
or experiential learning matches the appropriate learning outcomes and meets the 
following criteria: 
  
a.  Relevant – the learning gained provides the applicant with knowledge and skills 

which are relevant to the programme; which are relevant to the programme; 
  

b.  Sufficient  –  the  learning  gained  from  accredited  study  is  of  an  equivalent 
academic level to the standard entry requirement or content of a module or 
programme,  and  that  the  breadth  and  depth  of  prior  experiential  learning  is 
considered to be sufficient to demonstrate the applicant’s potential; 
  

c.  Verifiable – the evidence provided can be authenticated as being the outcome 

of the learner’s own effort; of the learner’s own effort; 
  

d.  Recent – the learning meets the University’s requirement for recent study (i.e. 
normally  within  5  years  of  application).  However,  Heads  of  Department  or 
Schools may adjust the restrictions on the recency of learning cited in any claim 
for  RPL  in  line  with  their  judgement  on  demands  of  specific  programmes, 
particularly where a qualification is followed by a period of related practice. 32. Where RPL is routinely used in the admissions process for a programme, detailed 
information will be available to applicants about the evidence they will be required 
to provide and how this will be used in the admissions process.  
 

33. It is essential that an applicant who wishes to make an application based on RPL 
discusses  this  with  the  relevant  department/  school  admissions  staff before  an 
application is submitted. 34. The University recognises the implications of granting applications for RPL where 
professional and regulatory bodies impose any particular restrictions on the use of 
RPL  and  this  will  be  reflected  in  the  handling  of  RPL  applications  within 
departments/ schools.  

 

9 The  University’s  governing  academic  body  with  overall 
responsibility  for  ensuring  the  integrity  of  the  University’s 
awards.  
To ensure all decisions regarding admission of applicants and/ 
or approving exemption from part of a course by credit transfer 
and/or  RPL  are  undertaken  in  adherence  with  the  relevant 
University policies and regulations. 
Responsible for ensuring all decisions taken in relation to RPL 
and/  or  credit  transfer  are  consistent  with  the  University’s 
regulations and are reported to the Board of Study. 
Responsible for recording RPL for Entry and credit transfer at 
university level and notifying applicant if RPL awarded.  
To provide advice on the regulatory aspects of RPL. 35. Neither RPL nor credit transfer can be used as an extenuating circumstance for 

underachievement in subsequent assessments. underachievement in subsequent assessments. 
 

36. There can be no appeal against the finding of a department/school in an RPL or 
credit  transfer  application.  However,  students/applicants  are  able  to  pursue  a 
complaint through the University’s Complaints Handling Procedure if they believe 
their  claim  has  not  been  processed  in  accordance  with  this  Policy  and  related 
University policies. 1.  Appendix A sets out a  series of helpful external resources that can  be used  when 

considering RPL/credit transfer. 
 

2.  Appendix B contains the University’s RPL/Credit Transfer claim form to be completed 

by students and applicants seeking to claim RPL and/or Credit Transfer.  

 

ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  
 

Senate 

Board of Study 

Department/ School 

Directorate of Student 
Experience 
Quality Enhancement 
and Assurance Team 

APPEALS 
 

 
 
APPENDICES APPEALS 
 

 
 
APPENDICES 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

10 

Appendix A – Useful Resources 
 
1.  QAA Scotland RPL resources, including RPL National Framework in Scotland 
https://www.qaa.ac.uk/scotland/development-projects/recognition-of-prior-learning 

 
2.  SCQF Guide to RPL 

https://scqf.org.uk/guide-to-rpl/ 

 
3.  SCQF Handbook (section 4 considers RPL) 

 
4.  Scottish National Qualifications: Old vs New 

https://scqf.org.uk/media/1104/old-v-new.pdf 4.  Scottish National Qualifications: Old vs New 

https://scqf.org.uk/media/1104/old-v-new.pdf 

https://scqf.org.uk/media/1125/scqf_handbook_web_final_2015.pdf 

 
5.  Qualifications can cross boundaries: Guide to comparing qualifications in the UK 

and Ireland 
https://www.qaa.ac.uk/docs/qaas/news-and-events/qualifications-can-cross-boundaries-
guide-to-comparing-qualifications-in-the-uk-and-ireland.pdf?sfvrsn=3715c981_4 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11 11 

Appendix B: Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)/ Credit Transfer Application 
Form 
 

This form should be completed by University of Strathclyde students or applicants who intend 
to make a claim for RPL and approved by the relevant Academic Selector. Completed forms 
must be typed and submitted via email to: •  Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences: HaSS-pg-enquiries@strath.ac.uk 
•  Faculty of Engineering: eng-enquiries@strath.ac.uk 
•  Faculty of Science: science-enquiries@strath.ac.uk 
•  Strathclyde Business School: sbs-advisor@strath.ac.uk 

Further information on the use of RPL/ credit transfer at the University of Strathclyde can be 
found in the Policy on Credit Transfer and RPL. Module code(s) and title(s) you would like to claim RPL and/ credit transfer towards: 
Please  consult  the  University  of  Strathclyde  programme  catalogue  and/or  contact  the 
appropriate Programme Leader for assistance  

Module code(s) 

Module title(s) 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name: 
Student or 
applicant number 
(if known): 
Email address: 
Intended 
programme  
Level of entry 
Expected start 
date: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 12 

Formal qualifications fully or partly completed (if any): 

Qualification title 

Subject Area 

Place of study 

SCQF 
Level 

Date 
achieved 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Details of any relevant learning gained through life and/or work experiences (if any): Details of any relevant learning gained through life and/or work experiences (if any): 

This is experiential (either informal or non-formal) learning. If you choose to submit a claim 
involving this type of evidence, the member of University staff assigned to assess your claim 
will be in touch to discuss the information and supporting evidence that may be required to 
process your claim. . Please summarise the evidence you are submitting to submit to support your claim 
(e.g. copies of qualifications, module descriptors, transcripts and/or CV, references): 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

14 Student signature 
Dated 
 
Personal information which you supply to the University of Strathclyde will be used to make a 
decision  on  your  application.  The  University  of  Strathclyde  is  the  data  controller  for  your 
information. Further information on how your information is used and your rights is available 
on online.  
 
To be completed by University staff: 
Value of credits and level  
Please record the number of credits and the level at which they apply for each instance of 
attainment. This information should be captured for each instance of module and/ or area of 
experiential learning that is being used to award credit.  
Value Level 
 
 
 
 

 
Approver’s  
signature 
Title 
Dated 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

15
Title:training/policy/Policy_on_Compensation_Scheme.pdf; Content:POLICY ON 
COMPENSATION 
SCHEME 

Version No. 
1.3 
 
 
1.4 

Description 
Policy on 
Compensation 
Scheme.  

Policy on 
Compensation 
Scheme. 

Author 
Assessment 
and Feedback 
Working 
Group 
Quality 
Assurance 
Committee 

Approval 
Senate  

Effective Date 
From academic 
year 2019-20 

Minor revision 

1st February 
2022 

      

Version 1.4 Minor revision 

1st February 
2022 

      

Version 1.4 

the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 

 Policy on Compensation Scheme 

In order to maintain academic standards and to ensure consistency of procedures and equitable 
treatment  of  students,  the  University  operates  a  complimentary  compensation  scheme  for 
Undergraduate, Integrated Masters (IM), and postgraduate taught degree programmes. Rationale 

1.  Compensation 

 

 

1.1  Except  where  not  permitted  for  reasons  of  professional  accreditation,  the  University 
compensation  scheme  shall  apply  to  all  years  of  full-time,  part-time  and  distance-
learning undergraduate programmes and all years of postgraduate taught programmes 
provided the total number of credits for the modules under consideration amounts to a 
minimum of 120 for full-time students, and pro-rata for part-time students. 1.2  For 4th year and 5th year UG degrees, final honours degree awards may be made using 
a  credit  block  award,  which  has  a  compensation  mechanism  built  into  the  process. 
Where this is the case no additional method of compensation will be applied. 1.3  In respect of part-time study, compensation shall  only  be applied at  the point on  the 
programme  at  which  a  student has  completed modules that exceed a multiple of 60 
credits.  In  the  following  table,  the  total  number  of  credits  that  can  be  compensated 
should be adjusted accordingly, i.e. normally 10 credits of compensation per 60 credits 
attempted. Alternatively, if a part time student is on a programme which does not include 
10 credit modules (or includes a mixture of 10/20 credit modules), a maximum of 20 
credits of compensation can be applied over 120 credits. This could be awarded in their 
first  year  (provided  they  have  taken  60  credits  and  have  the  CWA  required  for 
 
compensation), which would then exclude them from being given further compensation 
in the second year. In this circumstance all 60 credits must be awarded with numerical 
marks (not pass/fail).  If awarded in their second year, at least 100 credits over both 
years must be awarded with numerical marks with a maximum of 20 credits as pass/fail. 1.4  Compensation shall only be applied to a student’s first attempt at a module unless the 
student  is  re-attending  the  year  and  taking  a  full  curriculum.  A  student  taking 
examinations at a second or subsequent attempt shall not be eligible for compensation 
in that session unless any previous attempt is formally discounted.  

Undergraduate compensation Undergraduate compensation 

To  be  eligible 
for  compensation  at 
undergraduate level, a student is required 
to  obtain  a  credit  weighted  average  of 
module marks at the first attempt of at least 
45%. 
An  undergraduate  student  who  has 
achieved a  credit  weighted average of  at 
least  45%  but  has  failed  one  or  more 
modules  shall  be  awarded  a  ‘Pass  by 
Compensation’  in  modules  totaling  up  to 
20 credits where the marks obtained are in 
the 30%-39% range. Postgraduate Compensation 

To  be  eligible 
for  compensation  at 
postgraduate level, a student is required to 
obtain a credit weighted average of module 
marks at the first attempt of at least 55%. 

A postgraduate student who has achieved 
a credit weighted average of at least 55% 
but has failed one or more modules shall 
be awarded a ‘Pass by Compensation’ in 
modules totaling up to 20 credits where the 
marks  obtained  are  in  the  40-49%  range 

2 2 

 

 

 

 Policy on Compensation Scheme 

(or 30-39% range if the module is a level 4 
module). 

 

In  the  event  of  a  student  who  is  eligible 
for  compensation  obtaining  marks  in  the 
range  30-39%  for  modules  totaling  more 
than 20 credits, then normally the highest 
fail  marks 
by 
Compensation’.  However, 
final 
decision  regarding  which  mark  will  be 
compensated shall be at the discretion of 
the relevant Board of Examiners. 

‘Passed 

shall 

the 

be ‘Passed 

shall 

the 

be 

 

In  the  event  of  a  student  who  is  eligible 
for  compensation  obtaining  marks  in  the 
range  40-49%  (30-39%  for  a  level  4 
module) for modules totaling more than 20 
credits,  then  normally  the  highest  fail 
marks shall be ‘Passed by Compensation’. 
However,  the 
final  decision  regarding 
which  mark  will  be compensated shall be 
at  the  discretion of  the  relevant Board  of 
Examiners. 1.5  Modules where marks are returned as a P or F are not eligible for compensation, and 
shall  also  be  discounted  from  the  calculation  of  the  credit  weighted  average.    A 
maximum  of  20  credits  of  P  or  F  credits  may  be  counted  to  meet  the  120  credit 
curriculum eligibility criterion.  Where more than 20 credits have been returned as P or 
F, students will not normally be eligible for compensation. 1.6  At UG and IM level, individual dissertation and group project modules that are 40 or 
more credits are not eligible for compensation, although their credits may be counted to 
meet the 120 credit curriculum eligibility criterion for compensation to be applied to other 
 
modules. All other modules are eligible for compensation, providing they are 20 credits 
or less, and shall also be included in the calculation of the credit weighted average.  This 
does not prohibit any final award arrangements that may involve a block credit award, 
as defined by specific exam board conventions (see section 2.2). 1.7  At PG level, individual dissertation and group project modules that are 40 or more credits 
are not eligible for compensation and are discounted from the calculation of the credit 
weighted average for compensation, although they may subsequently contribute to the 
credit  weighted  average  for  award.  All  other  modules  are  eligible  for  compensation, 
providing they are 20 credits or less, and shall also be included in the calculation of the 
credit weighted average. 1.8  If a mark is returned as ‘A’ for absent or ‘NQ’ for Not Qualified this will count as zero and 

will be included in the average mark for calculation of compensation. 1.9  Where  programme  regulations  or  Departmental/School  requirements  specify  that  a 
Pass in a particular module is required for progress, then a ‘Pass by Compensation’ 
shall  not  be  sufficient  to  fulfil  this  requirement.  Similarly  where  a  programme  is 
professionally accredited, it may be exempt from the compensation scheme to fulfil the 
requirements  of  the  accrediting  body.  A  student  shall  be  permitted  to  take  a  resit 
assessment for a module in which a ‘Pass by Compensation’ had already been achieved 
in  order  to  fulfil a  specific  programme requirement  i.e.  in  situations  where  a  student 
selects a principal subject that requires a Pass in particular modules. 3 

 Policy on Compensation Scheme Policy on Compensation Scheme 

1.10 In the event of a student taking a re-sit assessment for a module already Passed by 
Compensation at the first diet for the reasons given in 1.12, then both marks e.g.  UG 
June board = 30% (Pass by Compensation) and UG September resit board = 78% shall 
be recorded on the student’s record, academic transcript and the respective June and 
September examination schedules. The credits for this module will only contribute once 
to the student’s credit total. 1.11 Compensation shall normally be applied at the first meetings of Boards of Examiners 
where the student has attempted the required number of credits for compensation to be 
applied (see Sections 2.1 and 2.2) only, that is, when the student’s first attempts at the 
examination of the curriculum are being considered. In cases where a student has not 
obtained all of the credits for the modules in the programme curriculum they were taking 
at the first meeting of Boards of Examiners, then re-sits in all failed modules (i.e. those 
not passed or not passed by compensation) should be attempted at the next available 
diet of examinations. 1.12 A student shall not be permitted to attempt the re-sit in any module for which credits 
have  already  been  awarded  (unless  a  pass  is  required  for  progress  or  professional 
accreditation). 1.13 In  the  event  of  a  professional  body  providing  written  confirmation  that  it  would  not 
accredit  a  programme  operating  the  University  compensation  scheme,  then  the 
programme concerned may be exempted from the scheme and an alternative scheme 
installed compliant with the regulations of that professional body. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

4
Title:demo/hello.txt; Content:Hello this is an introduction document for loading.
Title:training/policy/Assessment_and_Feedback_Policy.pdf; Content:ASSESSMENT AND 
FEEDBACK POLICY 

Version No.  Description 

Author 

Approval 

Effective Date 

Senate 

From academic 
year 2019-20 

1.2 

Assessment and 
Feedback Policy – 
applicable to both 
undergraduate and 
postgraduate taught 
courses 

Assessment 
and 
Feedback 
Working 
Group 

 

Version 1.2 

 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 

 

 
1.  RATIONALE 1.  RATIONALE 

 

Assessment and Feedback Policy In  higher  education,  “assessment”  describes  any  process  that  involves  the  evaluation  or 
appraisal of a student’s knowledge, understanding, skills, attitudes or abilities. In line with the 
QAA UK Quality Code for Higher Education, assessment is taken to be an integral component 
of teaching and learning, and serves multiple purposes. In addition to enabling evaluation and 
measurement  of  students’  learning,  effective  assessment  shapes  and  enhances  student 
learning.  Assessments  should  therefore  be  designed  to  facilitate  students’  attainment  of 
intended learning outcomes, and permit the measurement of such attainments against explicit 
criteria. A holistic approach to assessment at course level can also support the development of 
distinctive Strathclyde graduate attributes: graduates that are engaged, enquiring, enterprising, 
and ethically and globally aware. Recent publications on assessment and feedback in higher 
education  suggest  a  ‘transformation’  is  required  to  ensure  that  assessment  and  feedback 
practices  enable  students  to  develop  such  attributes  and  the  skills  needed  to  be  lifelong 
learners in the 21st century.1 This  approach  recognises  that  assessment  is  central  to  learning  and  teaching,  and  is  not 
designed  solely  to  measure  student  learning.  Also  essential  to  enhancing  learning,  is  the 
provision of continuous feedback to students on their learning; it is recognised that feedback 
takes different forms (e.g. replies to posts on a discussion forum), but in relation to assessment, 
useful feedback is feedback that is specific in informing learners the extent to which they have 
met  published  assessment  criteria,  and  explains  to  them  what  they  need  to  do  to  improve. 
Ensuring  feedback  is  clear,  specific,  and  adopts  a  supportive  tone  is  most  likely  to  foster 
student  engagement  with  feedback.  The  role  of  feedback  in  effectively  supporting  student 
learning  should  be  recognised  at  the  assessment  design  stage,  where  factors  such  as  the 
timing  of  the  release  of  feedback  and  the  scheduling  of  subsequent  assessments  are 
considered (particularly where feedback can be used by students to improve the development 
of future work), as well as the provision of opportunities for students to clarify feedback. The  University  expects  that feedback  will  normally be  returned  to  students  within  15  working 
days  of  assessment  submission2.  The  University’s  VLE,  Myplace,  provides  a  platform for the 
electronic return of grades and feedback, and where permitted by the nature of an assessment, 
staff  are  expected  to  implement  the  submission  of  assessments  online  through  Myplace,  in 
order to promote effectiveness and efficiency in each stage of the assessment and feedback 
process. In addition, Myplace should be used to manage assessments that are submitted offline 
in order to implement the Policy and Procedure on Extensions to Coursework Submission and 
Procedures  for  the  Recording  and  Publication  of  Marks.  Staff  should  also  be  cognisant  of 
specific  issues  relevant  to  equality,  diversity  and  inclusion  in  designing  assessments  and 
providing feedback, which may affect particular groups of students.3 1 For example: Boud, D. & Falachikov, N. (Eds.). (2007). Rethinking Assessment in Higher Education. Oxon: 
Routledge; Higher Education Academy. (2012). A Marked Improvement. Transforming assessment in higher 
education. York: The Higher Education Academy; Merry, S., Price, M., Carless, D. & Taras, M. (Eds.). (2013). 
Reconceptualising  Feedback  in  Higher  Education.  Developing  Dialogue  with  Students.  Oxon:  Routledge; 
Carless,  D.  (2015).  Excellence  in  university  assessment:  learning  from  award-winning  practice.  London: 
Routledge. 
2 Exceptions to this are dissertations or assessments with credit weightings of 40 credits or higher, and where 
double marking is required. (See the Policy on Moderation and Double Marking).  
3 Staff are advised to consult the University’s equality impact assessment information where relevant. 1 

 
 

 

the Assessment and Feedback Policy 
Previous  work  on  assessment  at  Strathclyde  (through  the  Re-Engineering  Assessment 
Practices4 and Peer Evaluation in Education Review5  projects, together with the work on Peer 
and  Community  Personal  Development  Planning),  have  emphasised  the  importance  of 
providing students with opportunities to self- and peer-assess, and for students to develop the 
capacity  to  evaluate,  reflect  on6  and  manage  their  own  learning  through  the  effective  use  of 
feedback.  Published  research  also  highlights 
importance  of  developing  students’ 
understanding of the criteria and standards by which their work is assessed, and suggests that 
providing students with the opportunity to analyse and discuss the qualities of carefully selected 
exemplars is an effective learning activity to achieve this7. It is widely recognised that these will, 
in the long-term, help develop attitudes and skills that foster engagement and independence in 
learning.  
 
The  aim  of  the  current  policy  is  to  develop  an  institution-wide  approach  to  assessment  and 
feedback  that  enhances  the  effectiveness  of  assessment  in  aiding  students  to  achieve  the 
necessary  knowledge  and  skills  described  in  a  class  or  programme’s  intended  learning 
outcomes.  The  policy  is  underpinned  by  principles  of  assessment  and  feedback  (outlined  in 
section  3)  that  reflect  this  aim  and  a  commitment  to  ensuring  our  assessment  and  feedback 
practices are fair, transparent, and continuously reviewed. In short, to ensure they continue to 
be fit for purpose. This policy should be adhered to across the University. The implementation 
of the policy will be monitored by the Quality Assurance Committee. 2.  SCOPE This  policy  applies  to all  undergraduate  and  postgraduate  taught  programmes  offered  by  the 
University. This policy should be read in conjunction with other relevant University policies and 
procedures.  The  University  website  contains  policies  and  procedures  on  a  range  of 
assessment-related  matters,  including:  ensuring  equality,  guidance  for  staff  on  supporting 
students  with  a  disability,  guides  for  staff  marking  assessments  in  undergraduate  and 
postgraduate taught courses, guidance for students and staff on avoiding plagiarism, guidance 
for staff in dealing  with possible cases  of plagiarism, policies on classifying honours degrees 
and other degree awards, and on awarding motivational merit and distinction, guidance on the 
compensation  scheme,  the  role  of  external  examiners  in  taught  courses,  the  procedure  for 
dealing  with  student  discipline  cases,  guidance  for  staff  on  the  appeals  procedure  and 
accounting for students’ personal circumstances. 4 REAP Project, accessed at http://www.reap.ac.uk/ 
5 PEER Project, accessed from: http://www.reap.ac.uk/PEER.aspx. The site contains a PEER toolkit 
containing guidance for staff on using peer review. 
6 Winstone, N. & Nash. R. (2016). The Developing Engagement with Feedback Toolkit (DEFT). The Higher 
Education Academy. https://www.heacademy.ac.uk/knowledge-hub/developing-engagement-feedback-toolkit-
deft 
7 Carless, D. & Boud, D. (2018): The development of student feedback literacy: enabling uptake of feedback, 
Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, DOI: 10.1080/02602938.2018.1463354 2 

 

 

 
 

 
3.  ASSESSMENT AND FEEDBACK PRINCIPLES 

 

 

Assessment and Feedback Policy 

These principles have been widely consulted on across the University, and must be adhered to 
throughout the institution.  

PRINCIPLE  1.  ASSESSMENT  AND  FEEDBACK  PRACTICES  PROMOTE  EFFECTIVE 
STUDENT LEARNING PRINCIPLE  1.  ASSESSMENT  AND  FEEDBACK  PRACTICES  PROMOTE  EFFECTIVE 
STUDENT LEARNING 

1.1  Assessment  and  feedback  activities  are  designed  to  foster  student  engagement,  to 
support  and  measure  students’  attainment  of  knowledge,  understanding,  and 
transferable skills.  

1.2  A  range  of  assessment  methods  are  used,  increasing  in  complexity  across  a 

programme, and taking into consideration student and staff workloads. programme, and taking into consideration student and staff workloads. 

1.3  Assessment  and  feedback  practices  align  with  intended  learning  outcomes  and 
assessment criteria, and provide opportunities for students to be active  participants in 
the process, including opportunities for students to discuss feedback. 1.4  Timely, constructive, and supportive feedback helps students understand the extent to 
which  they  have  fulfilled  the  assessment  criteria,  and  supports  students  to  use  their 
feedback in the development of subsequent work. 1.5  The  timing  of  assessments  and  return  of  feedback  should  be  scheduled  to  enable 
students  to  use  feedback  to  inform  their  approach  to  subsequent  assessments.  The 
release of feedback should consider the ability of students to gain further feedback and 
support, and avoid release in close proximity to periods where the university is closed 1.6  Where examinations are used, students should receive at least general feedback soon 
after  the  examination.  Students  who  wish  to  view  their  exam  scripts  following  the 
provision of general feedback should be facilitated to do so under supervision of staff. 

PRINCIPLE  2.  ASSESSMENT  AND  FEEDBACK  PRACTICES  ARE  APPROPRIATE,  FAIR, 
AND TRANSPARENT PRINCIPLE  2.  ASSESSMENT  AND  FEEDBACK  PRACTICES  ARE  APPROPRIATE,  FAIR, 
AND TRANSPARENT 

2.1  Assessment tasks are appropriate to disciplinary and/or professional contexts. 
2.2  Assessment applies rigorous academic standards related to and across, the discipline(s) 

or professional context and is based on clearly defined assessment criteria. 

2.3  Assessment  grading  and  feedback  is  based  solely  on  students’  achievement  against 

criteria and standards. criteria and standards. 

2.4  Assessment and feedback practices are fair, inclusive and accessible to all students. 

PRINCIPLE  3.  ASSESSMENT  AND  FEEDBACK  PRACTICES  ARE  CLEARLY 
COMMUNICATED TO STUDENTS AND STAFF 

3.1  Students must be made aware at the beginning of a class of the details of assessments, 

including the purpose, weighting, and timing of assessment. including the purpose, weighting, and timing of assessment. 

3.2  Students must be made aware at the beginning of a class of the nature and timing of 
feedback. Where unexpected problems cause a delay in the return of feedback within 15 
working days, an explanation will be provided to students, along with a new date for the 
return of feedback. 

3.3  All students and staff are made aware at the start of a class of the criteria and standards 3.3  All students and staff are made aware at the start of a class of the criteria and standards 

used to assess and provide feedback on students’ work. 

 
 

 

 

3 

 

 

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
3.4  Students  must  be  made  aware  of  relevant  policies  and  procedures  around  academic 
honesty  in  assessment,  and  of  procedures  associated  with  personal  circumstances, 
extensions to the deadlines of coursework, and late submission of coursework. 3.5  There  are  opportunities  for  students  and  staff  to  engage  in  a  dialogue  around 

assessment and feedback, including opportunities for students to clarify feedback. 

3.6  In  each  programme  the  processes  for  marking,  moderation,  and  feedback  are 

appropriate and fair and are explained to students and staff. 

PRINCIPLE  4.  ASSESSMENT  AND  FEEDBACK  PRACTICES  ARE  CONTINUOUSLY 
REVIEWED PRINCIPLE  4.  ASSESSMENT  AND  FEEDBACK  PRACTICES  ARE  CONTINUOUSLY 
REVIEWED  

4.1  The timing of assessment activities at cohort level, including the timing of examinations, 

are monitored and reviewed, in order to minimise bunching.  

4.2  Assessment and feedback activities, and the outcomes of assessment, are reviewed via 
the  class  and  course  approval  and/or  review  processes,  and  external  examining 
processes. 4.3  Assessment  and  feedback  activities  are  continuously  reviewed  to  ensure  effective 

alignment with a programme’s intended learning outcomes and graduate attributes. 

4.4  Opportunities to develop effective practice and innovation in assessment and feedback 

are available to all staff involved in assessment. 

 
4.  ANONYMOUS MARKING are available to all staff involved in assessment. 

 
4.  ANONYMOUS MARKING 

4.1 Anonymous marking (when the identity of a student is not known to a marker and/or exam 
board) will be used for all assessments wherever possible and appropriate, including formal 
written examinations at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. 4.2 Where  anonymous  marking  is  not  possible,  for  example  where  an  alternative  method  of 
assessment has been used for a student with a disability, additional scrutiny by a second 
marker may be appropriate.  

4.3 Other  exceptions  will  be  where  the  mode  of  assessment  (e.g.,  presentations  or  oral 
examinations) prevents anonymity, or where there is pedagogical justification (e.g., the use 
of ipsative feedback). 4.4 Double marking is effective practice for assessments that are not marked anonymously and 

for dissertations, or comparable assessments. 

 
5.  RESPONSIBILITIES FOR IMPLEMENTATION 

5.1 The University assumes responsibility for: -  Providing  staff  with  opportunities  to  develop  effective  practice  in  assessment  and 
feedback through the Organisational Staff and Development Unit (Strathclyde Teaching 
Excellence Programme) Education Enhancement (the University’s VLE, Myplace offers 
various  tools  to  support  effective  practice  in  assessment  and  feedback,  including 
handling peer review/assessment activities, online assessment submission and return of 
feedback, and enabling efficient communication with different student and staff groups; 
the  Sharing  Practice  in  Enhancing  Learning  and  Teaching  (SPELT)  platform,  and 4 

 
 

 

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
TESTA), the Disability and Wellbeing Service (for ensuring assessments are accessible 
to all students), and the Equality and Diversity Office;  

 

-  Providing  adequate  resources,  including  information  technology  systems,  to  support 
effective  practice  (Information  Services  Directorate,  Student  Business,  Education 
Enhancement); and 

-  Monitoring  implementation  of  this  policy  through  the  Quality  Assurance  Committee -  Monitoring  implementation  of  this  policy  through  the  Quality  Assurance  Committee 

(Education Enhancement). 

5.2 Faculties  are  responsible  for:  overseeing  and  receiving  reports  from  programme  exam 
boards;  scrutinising  external  examiners’  reports  and  responding  to  them;  ensuring 
consistency  in  the  implementation  of  this  and  other  related  policies  across  programmes, 
and sharing effective practice within and between faculties. 5.3 Heads  of  Department/School  are  responsible  for:  instructing  colleagues  within  their 
Department/School  to  note  and  adhere  to  the  Assessment  and  Feedback  Policy  and 
Procedures  for  Recording  and  Publication  of  Marks,  Procedures  on  Preparing  and 
Conducting Exams, and other related policies such as the Policy on the Late Submission of 
Coursework,  Policy  on  Extensions  to  Coursework  Submission,  the  Policy  on  Moderation 
and  Double  Marking,  and  Guidance  on  Marking  Assessments  in  Undergraduate  and 
Postgraduate Taught courses; and for ensuring that marking of assessments is sufficiently 
resourced  to  enable  feedback  to  be  returned  within  15  working  days  of  assessment 
submission. 5.4 Programme  Exam  Boards  are  responsible  for:  making  sure  assessments  across  a 
programme  are  marked  fairly;  ensuring  university  and  faculty  regulations  are  adhered  to; 
and responding to points made by External Examiners. 

5.5 Programme  Leaders/Directors  are  responsible  for  ensuring  a  coherent  and  effective 
approach  to  assessment  and  feedback  is  taken  across  a  programme  of  study.  This 
approach will involve: -  Ensuring a range of assessment methods are used throughout a programme of study, 

as appropriate to the discipline; 

-  Monitoring  the  intensity  and  equity  of  assessments  across  and  between  programmes, 

with due consideration to joint honours degrees; 

-  Designing  and  reviewing  the  Assessment  Schedule  and  Exam  Timetable  within  a 

programme and requesting amendments where there is assessment/exam bunching; programme and requesting amendments where there is assessment/exam bunching;  

-  Developing  effective  moderation  and/or  double  marking  procedures,  in  line  with  the 

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking;  

-  Ensuring  procedures  are  in  place  for  monitoring  students’  use  of  the  Policies  and 
Procedures  on  Extensions  to  Coursework  Submission  and  Late  Submission  of 
Coursework, as a mechanism for identifying students who may require support; and -  Ensuring  procedures  related  to  assuring  fairness  in  assessment,  such  as  moderation 

and the role of External Examiners, are communicated to students. 

5.6 Year Coordinators and/or Module Coordinators are responsible for:  

-  Having an overview of summative assessment activities within a programme of study to 
avoid, where possible, a concentration of assessment deadlines, including examinations; 

 

 

5 

 
 

 

Assessment and Feedback Policy 5 

 
 

 

Assessment and Feedback Policy 

-  Making sure the details of all assessments are provided at the start of a class; 
-  Ensuring  assessment  criteria  that  is  aligned  to  intended  learning  outcomes  and  the 
University’s  Guidance  on  Marking  Assessments  in  Undergraduate  and  Postgraduate 
Taught  programmes,  is  transparent  and  made  available  to  students  at  the  start  of  a 
class; -  Providing  opportunities  for  students  to  use  feedback  prior  to  the  submission  of  any 

subsequent related assessments;  

-  Working  with  students  to  develop  effective  practice  in  assessment  and  feedback, 
including:  providing  students  with  opportunities  to  develop  their  understanding  of  the 
criteria and standards used to assess their work and supporting students to engage with 
and use feedback; -  Obtaining feedback from students in relation to assessment and feedback for module(s) 
for which they are responsible, and for communicating any actions on this feedback to 
students; and 

-  For undertaking effective moderation and/or double marking procedures.  

5.7 Staff involved in assessing students’ work are responsible for: 

-  Designing assessments that effectively facilitate and measure students’ achievement of 

intended learning outcomes; intended learning outcomes; 

-  Assessing students’ work according to published assessment criteria which are aligned 
to intended learning outcomes and the University’s Guidance on Marking Assessments 
in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught programmes;  

-  Providing  timely,  informative  and  helpful  feedback  which  enables  students  to  further 

improve their learning and performance wherever possible;  
Informing students when, where and how feedback will be provided; - 
-  Engaging in dialogue with students about assessment and feedback; and 
-  Continuously reviewing their approaches to assessment and feedback to reflect effective 

practice. 

5.8 Students are expected to be responsible for their own learning through:  

-  Understanding the requirements of individual assessments, and actively engaging with 

assessment tasks by devoting appropriate time and effort; assessment tasks by devoting appropriate time and effort; 

-  Developing  an  understanding  of  the  relationship  between  intended  learning  outcomes 

and assessment criteria, and standards in their programme of study; 

-  Ensuring their academic work is authentic and honestly produced; 
-  Finding  out  where,  how  and  when  work  is  submitted  and  how  and  when  feedback  is 

provided; -  Actively engaging, reflecting, and using provided feedback;  
-  Understanding  the  academic  policies  and  procedures  related  to  assessment  and 
feedback, including Personal Circumstances Procedure, Policy and Procedures for the 
Late Submission of Coursework, Policy on  Moderation and Double  Marking, Policy on 
Extensions to the Submission of Coursework, and Compensation and Motivational Merit; 
-  Seeking academic support when needed, for example, if feedback needs to be clarified; -  Participating  in  the  development  of  assessment  and  feedback  practices  at  class  and 

and 

programme levels. 

 

 

6 

 

 
 

 
6.  DEFINITIONS OF TERMS 

 
Assessment 

Assessment criteria 
 
 
Assessment bunching 

Assessment schedule  
 
Exam bunching 

Feedback 

Formative assessment   
 

Graduate attributes 

 

Assessment and Feedback Policy The process of measuring the performance of students 
(as in examinations, assignments and other assessable 
work)  that  enables  students  to  monitor  their  progress 
and contributes to their academic results. 
 
Specific criteria against which pieces of work are 
assessed. An understanding of the criteria must be 
shared by markers and students. Feedback should 
relate to these criteria.  
The perception of assessments within a programme of 
study being scheduled too closely together. 
 
A timeline of all cohort level assessment. Where  the  scheduling  of  two  exams  falls  within  a  23 
hour period.  
 
Information provided to students on the quality of their 
performance  in  relation  to  assessment  criteria,  which 
forms the basis of improved student learning.  
 
This  type  of  assessment  normally  has  no  or  low 
weighting in the final mark for a module or programme. 
The  goal  of  formative  assessment  is  to  provide  an 
opportunity  for  students  to  monitor  their  learning  and 
provide  feedback  to  teachers  that  can  be  used  to 
review their teaching. 
 
Qualities,  skills,  dispositions,  and  understanding  that 
students are expected to develop. At Strathclyde these 
are  referred  to  as  the  4  E’s  –  engaged,  enquiring, 
enterprising and ethically and globally aware. type  of 

Ipsative feedback Intended learning outcomes  What  the  student  is  expected  to  be  able  to  do  or 
demonstrate,  in  terms  of  particular  knowledge,  skills 
and  understanding,  by 
the  end  of  a  module  or 
programme.  
 
This 
performance 
performance on a previous assessment. 
 
The  process  of  checking  that  assessment  criteria  are 
consistently  applied  across  markers 
in  marking 
students’ work. 
 
The  individual  components  of  a  programme,  normally 
worth 20 or 10 credits. 
 
The process of obtaining feedback from students on all 
aspects of teaching, learning, and assessment within a feedback  compares  a  student’s 
assessment  with 

Module evaluation 

Moderation 

Module 

current 

on 

a 

 

 

7 

 
 

 

Assessment and Feedback Policy module. 
 
The full degree programme leading to an award. 
 
Where an assessment is independently marked by two 
markers,  but  where  the  second  marker  has  access  to 
the marks or comments of the first marker. 
 
Assessment  is  summative  when  the  grading  of  an 
assessment contributes to the final grade for a class or 
course.  The  aim  of  summative  assessment  is  to 
evaluate  students’  attainment  of  the  intended  learning 
outcomes within a unit of study. 
 
 
Where an assessment is independently marked by two 
markers  who  do  not  have  access  to  the  grades  or 
comments of the other marker. 
 
The  University’s  standard  working  week  is  normally 
Monday  to  Friday,  covering  five  working  days.  Fifteen 
working  days  would  normally  equate  to  21  calendar 
days,  but  may  be  longer  where  the  period  includes 
University closure days. Programme 

Seen double marking 

Summative assessment 

 
Unseen double marking 
 

Working days 

 

 

 

 

8
